---
layout: post
title: "My Mother"
image: megan.JPEG
---

She takes on an almost ravenous hunt when finding the (sometimes disguised) delicacies of rural America’s most generic gas stations. She comes back to the car and pours out her loot, starting the descriptions before even sitting down. 

On vacation, she makes it clear that everyone else is fully entitled to their own itinerary but that she has this place she really needs to see or eat at, and that’s what she'll be doing. It’s more a proclamation than anything else.

She (out of principle) will not wake anyone up for any occasion.

She goes to the grocery store every single day, and although the regime she has built herself does not encourage small talk, the saturday night cashier and nail lady two doors down at the same strip mall could draw her face from memory. They ask her how Sam is doing. 

She tells stories with her hands. Her hands are some of my first memories. Her veins draw organic green rivers with deltas in her wrists and her unpolished nails are never shorter or longer than one half inch from the tip of her finger. Fingers that are longer than average, and delicate - though never delicately used.

Oh, her hands!

She would never wear a glove to cook or to clean, and her nails feel unlike any other when tracing my back or embracing my head. She never writes for long, although most stray pieces of paper will find themselves tagged with a grocery list that never makes it to the store. I suppose it’s more an exercise in recitation. 

W. R. T. drawing, she will surrender before she begins. 

When she is tasked with remembering to do something, she puts her wedding ring on her right ring finger. 

She won’t watch sporting events because she can’t bear to see either team lose.
 
She will not – willingly – watch animation. Regarding fiction, she’s often quoted as saying, “Why would I elect to read someone else’s thoughts?”

She pretended to enjoy the movie "Frozen" when I brought her to an empty theater after she picked me up from dance practice. I showed her my newest leap sequences during the dull parts.

You see, I get my flexibility from her.

On the rare occasion she obliges in playing a board or card game, she will often let out shrieks of anxious competition, and vow to never play again.

She hates to drive, because she “can’t drive and talk at the same time” and prefers the backseat to the passenger. 

When I was 7, and utterly enchanted with Taylor Swift’s debut album, I decided I wanted to be her for Halloween. My mom took me to two separate drug stores in search of the best sea salt curl-holding spray in hopes my hair would imitate the glamorous tight ringlets on the album’s cover. 

If anyone should eat anything, with or without her present, that they find remarkable, she will take it upon herself, with the zeal and commitment of no other, to replicate the culinary experience in her own kitchen. 

She’s honest with herself, and suggests you do the same. 

She doesn’t go anywhere without prior application of makeup. If a hotel or house she’s staying at doesn’t possess a blow dryer, she will not hesitate in purchasing, and promptly gifting the hosts one. 

If the reader will momentarily allow me any sort of prescription power regarding interpretation of the previous anecdote, let it be one of keenness to habit, and the prioritization of comfort (and, in the case of the blow dryer gift, generosity) rather than vanity. 

When she accompanied me to our church’s girl’s camp, she brought a glass from home which she kept full of bottled diet coke and fresh lime from a cooler in the trunk of her car. 

She is incapable of any sort of poker face, which makes the feat of making her laugh especially rewarding. 

Eli succeeds most frequently. 

She never takes naps and her pillow, which she cannot sleep without, does not contain more than a couple hundred feathers. She never uses an alarm and I can count on one hand the amount of times she’s slept in. 

She can captivate a whole room of people in separate conversations by telling one person the story of winning my father over. Or any story for that matter. 

In both contemplation and in apathy, she rests her chin in her hand, and when sitting, she will often cross one leg around the other twice. 

In my early childhood, she would stand at the kitchen counter with one leg folded under her, foot flat to thigh. 

She’s ruined every single surprise she’s ever attempted to orchestrate for me because she refuses to accept the disappointment that so often precedes surprises. 

Most notably, she is firm in her convictions and bold in her embrace. Which makes the experience of her love all-consuming. 
