---
layout: post
title: "On Dating: Self-Inflicted Torture I'm Learning to Enjoy"
image: torture.JPEG
when: "June 22, 2025"
---

Acknowledging the inevitability of some trite statements, I am writing about my dating life for the first time.

Certain that nothing I could write about here is a groundbreaking take on or experience dating in New York City, I’ve often thought about cataloging this (hopefully temporary) season in my life and I don’t want to let the fear of unoriginality get in the way of recording my own thoughts.

I have been single living in Manhattan for over a year and a half now. 

Although I am grateful I feel and maintain a sense of hope in terms of finding someone and ending up in a settled, healthy relationship, I would say about every three months, I find myself completely apathetic and drained from the work that I know this goal requires.

Not that my own small-scale blog needs this many disclaimers, but I would like to point out the obvious response to these sentiments which is that I am only 24. I am well aware of my young age, and I know that a good amount of the pressure I may feel to find someone to fall in love with comes from the cultural influence of being raised in the LDS faith. Regardless of their current activity status in the church, about half of my closest friends are married. 

Which isn’t to say I am working towards the goal of marriage anytime soon, but it definitely gives context to how my understanding of finding love has been shaped. And as I pointed out to a friend in his thirties the other night who was trying to assure me that I “am only 24, and don’t need to be in any sort of a rush to find something serious”, he was 3 years into a decade long relationship by 24, and even though they didn’t work out, he had a part of something then that he is assuring me I don’t need to be worried about finding now.

Even though the secular world urges us not to get married in our twenties (a suggestion I fully plan on heeding), plenty of people I meet every single day are in their mid twenties and living with a partner. Not to mention the portion of the weddings my 32-year-old sister attends for two people who have been dating since undergrad. 

Which is all to say that while I know I am only 24, I also know that being in love and even casually dating around during this period of my life is not something I want to miss out on, even if it takes more work than I feel up to, even if I am met with disappointment more than I feel encouraged. 

There are three main unsavory feelings I frequently come up against that lead me to feel discouraged about dating.

**1. It feels stupid and desperate to cast a net into the ocean of any public space or work environment.**

I cannot tell you how many people/ their significant others I have sat down and barely-short-of-begged them to rack their brains to think of anyone they might know for me. I have done my fair share of laps around my office searching for someone to pique my curiosity, gone back to my trusted coworkers, and found (sometimes impressive) ways to identify them/ their relationship status. 

I actually once invited a coworker to my birthday party with the request of bringing one of these subjects as his plus one.

I have asked an uber driver for photos/ information about his 26-year-old son in the city. 

I have searched through single-digit-pixel Partiful profile photos just to ask the host more about them before even attending the party.

I have asked someone out on the subway.

And in what should have acted as a long look in a mirror that only reflects desperation, which I willfully ignored, I have been rejected after asking a (confirmed as single) stranger on the street for his number solely based on the fact that he paid me one compliment in passing.

It is taking some energy to convince myself this public confession shouldn’t feel as pitiful as it does. To acknowledge how far from chill, cool, relaxed, and mysterious I am may always feel like involuntary indecent exposure.

Friends will sometimes send me memes or cultural references of Charlotte York-type characters playing their usual role of irrepressible inquiring about romantic prospects. Which of course isn’t the sexiest, most desireable role to play in someone’s life. But what I do know, is that on the flip side of characters like Charlotte is an eternal spring of hope. 

In order to continue to put my feelers out among friends or make my trips to the water cooler dual-purpose, I have to believe that something might come back to me one time. And in order to keep approaching strangers, I have to keep being brave. And even though I’m pretty sure there’s a disney slogan dangerously close to this statement, faith and bravery are foundational muscles which are important to exercise. 

So anytime I face the reality check of how fervent and wide-spread my search for love is, I hope I can remember that even though being more low-key might be chic, and it might not be necessarily “cool” to ask your friend’s husband to recall the relationship status of any semi-interesting coworker, one day it might pay off, and then all the antics along the way will just be funny stories to tell at a mid-life dinner party.

If I think about sitting down with the love of my life and being able to sincerely tell him, “I’ve been looking for you, and I’m so happy I found you.”, then the search doesn’t seem so embarrassing after all, in fact it just makes sense.

In a similar vein to facing the desperate tone of my romantic search, 

**2. It also feels uncomfortable and somewhat predatorial to (even successfully) scope out / approach someone at a bar or event.**

Last night I went out to Greenpoint with another single friend in hopes of finding some eligible bachelors to fill our evening. This is not out of my ordinary weekend routine. I usually try to go to a couple of different spots at least one of the two weekend nights any time I’m in town. I make sure my body language is open, if my friend goes to the bathroom I resist the urge to go on my phone, I approach and receive approaches. Hell! I’ve even picked up a pool cue or two (tragically). 

If my goal is to exchange information or even plan a date with a man deemed worthy, then these tactics work more often than they don’t. If a New York City bar is the fast-paced office of attraction it’s portrayed as in media, then at least once a week I am punching my time card. 

In the abstract, this behavior doesn’t seem embarrassing at all. These kinds of activities are usually what’s meant by the common demand to “put yourself out there”, and not only am I checking this box off regularly, I usually have a great time too.

The uneasiness is introduced during a lap around the space. While checking out heights and body language or listening for words and phrases which immediately disqualify a candidate, I usually find myself driving the group’s metaphorical 4-wheeler through a social safari. I don’t like the predatorial way this search makes me feel and yet, staying in place can bring unwelcome visitors with no way of conversational escape.

There are thousands of factors which contribute to a perfect or even above average night out, which would be a compelling topic for a separate piece, but what I have learned about actively trying to meet someone organically is that in any single night, time is of the essence. There is a small window of time at the beginning of a full night which contains hope and variety, because changing locations becomes less and less fruitful as places begin to fill up or close. Knowing the time-sensitivity of the search only exacerbates its nature of desperation and intensity.

Having said all of this, odds are more likely than not that I can be found downtown or across the bridge on any given weekend night, and I don’t foresee that changing anytime soon. One reason being that it isn’t every night I’m out in which the goal is to meet someone. And even when the night starts that way, there are plenty of factors that make my experience fun and worthwhile when it falls short of “success”. 

I will stay an (unnecessary) advocate of the nightlife scene in New York City, especially in the interest of finding someone to talk to, but I can’t very well write about the trials of city dating in my early twenties without acknowledging the discomfort of seeking physical connection in public.

The difficulties that come with attempting to meet someone in the wild are especially important to note when responding to another common two-cents given to me which is, “Sophie, you’re not going to find your person on *Hinge*”.

To which I usually wishfully agree while maintaining an active profile. I refrain from deleting Hinge against nature’s strongest forces (men obsessed with Tarintino movies, the lack of ability to differentiate your/you’re, blatant sexual harassment, etc.), because online dating is the origin of three important couples in my life (acknowledgements came early in this novel: Congratulations to Camille & Tommy, Eli & Ashley, and Ashlyn & Jose). All unions which contain qualities I aspire towards.

Having defended my maintenance of an online dating presence, I will also note that

**3. Online dating can quickly gamify both attraction and connection.**

Anyone who has spent more than 30 minutes on any dating app will not need an explanation of this grievance. But to the few and proud who haven’t, allow me to describe what I mean.

After an intentional session of swiping through the profiles straight men have to offer, habits begin to form. The actual process of my selection/ elimination is less than a couple of seconds, so you’ll have to bear with me in my first attempt at best explaining in writing what my mind does when faced with a new profile. 

I would say more than half of the profiles I see are swiped away after the first picture based solely on initial attraction. 

Next, I immediately scroll to height. I am (begrudgingly) 6 feet tall, so although I am trying to will my mind more open, I usually swipe away at anything less than 5’10” (another half of the profiles). 

I will note here that if on my way to scrolling to height, I see a response that is for some reason glaringly off-putting (extremely long, immediately arrogant, something that indicates drinking is a foundational quality of this person, etc.) I will save myself the time of looking further. 

After height, there is the occupation to examine. I’m usually pretty open here, with the exception of any quippy remark in place of “Job” that indicates he is unemployed or otherwise uninterested in pursuing a career.

In the same general response table as career is the potential for deal breaking answers such as “Conservative”, “Moderate”, “Not Political”, “Smoker”, or “Atheist”. All of which I have either tried and decided I find offensive or feel generally uninspiring.

At this point, I have swiped out of 95% of the profiles I come across.

The rest of my decision is based on the story the photos tell (generous interpretation of what is most likely 6 random photos a man found conveniently), and a sort of innocent-until-proven-guilty logic of evaluating prompt responses.

Common deciding factors include if the person has anyone else in any of his photos, if more than one of them is a selfie, if none of the responses were even remotely unserious (asking for funny is too high of a bar pre-first date), if any of the photos are posed shirtless photos (as opposed to the more tasteful, but still rarely encouraged, swimsuit candid), and so on and so forth.

I won’t even get into the role of post-match messaging, as it’s far too variable and in most cases genuinely disheartening.

One problem with this (from what I have seen) fairly standard procedure is that being able to efficiently filter out non-negotiables requires a trained eye. More often than not, that “trained eye” is actively searching for reasons to quickly eliminate a candidate. A skill that I am not necessarily interested in honing. While it’s important to maintain critical thinking and personal standards when it comes to dating, it’s a challenge to remain as optimistic as I would like to be about my dating life when constantly face to face with such a drastic ratio of unacceptable men. 

I believe in dating apps because of the small portion of the fruits of their labor I dearly admire, and I think that their formula is as good as it can be for the task it has. However, there is nothing that can successfully replicate the connection provided by physical interaction. You can’t recreate every mannerism a person might exhibit in a 30 second conversation with only 6 photos, and not every detail of a person’s life that they portray on a dating profile holds the same weight as that of the next person. It’s a dangerous game to start thinking otherwise.

I go through phases of inactivity on Hinge, to be sure. My relationship with online dating feels so bipolar because of its paradoxical nature; I won’t delete my profile for the same reason I sometimes find it challenging to keep swiping “No” on the majority of men I come across: 

When it comes to finding love, I don’t believe in closing any doors.

Eve Babitz writes in *Slow Days, Fast Company*, 

“I have a lot of friends who are positive life isn’t worth living without True Love Forever. They’re always on the prowl and sulk against the gods when they go to a party and don’t fall in love. 

“Women, especially, engage themselves in ghastly self-inflicted tortures for which they’ve been primed since childhood. After all, historically it’s always been dreadful for women, and the logic given them was ‘it’s going to be dreadful so you may as well learn to enjoy it.’”

I don’t believe life isn’t worth living without True Love Forever. At least in the context where True Love is limited to romantic love. I have had plenty of romantic love for a 24-year-old and decided life is better lived without the type I’ve experienced. I hope one day I find True Love that makes me refuse to live without it, but until then, I will continue to record the ghastly self-inflicted tortures of searching for love for which I’ve been primed since childhood. 

I think I’m learning to enjoy it.


