---
layout: post
title: "Brighter Than I Thought"
image: i_dim.JPEG
when: "January 4, 2025"
---

**Drama in Two Acts**  
by Carol Lynn Pearson  

I dim  
I dim  
I do not doubt  
If someone blew–  
I would go out.  

I did not.  
I must be brighter than I thought.  

*I must be brighter than I thought.* I came across this poem a couple months ago and it comes to my mind every now and then. As I have been brainstorming how to reflect on and summarize my year, I keep bumping into the idea that 2024 showed me that I was brighter than I thought. 

The past three years have brought with them challenges I couldn’t have anticipated. Among the most pressing of these, I have found it difficult to develop an autonomous view of myself. I’m sure I have written about this [here](https://madamesuperstar.com/spring-by-angel-olsen) and [there](https://madamesuperstar.com/the-laundry), but it is not only dangerous but also incredibly tempting to intertwine my view of myself with a (not always generous) third party perspective. In doing so, it can feel like a light extinguishing within me.

For every unfavorable external belief about the state of my life or the decisions I make that I adopted and internalized, I felt myself dim. These opinions were materialized from sources that didn’t even hold any weight. They hadn’t earned their place in the government of my soul, and yet, I gave them all three branches. 

I visited a good family friend in June of 2023, in the midst of an internal coup run by Shame and Doubt. He remarked afterward to his son, my friend, that it felt like I had no light left in me. 

I joke about this now with my friend, because I sometimes find it surprising when dads become hyper-perceptive, but he was right. I let everything inside me tell me someone or something was blowing, and I believed I would extinguish.

That was in 2023, though, which I have written about [here](https://madamesuperstar.com/earth-rotating). What I discovered toward the end of that year, and have felt throughout 2024 has made all the difference.

I realized through repetitive disappointment, that others are not responsible for the reflection of self I need to build self-esteem. They don’t always earn that position in the first place, and when they do, it’s too heavy of a load to carry. This reassurance and complete understanding must necessarily come from within.

Each day, the to-do list starts anew, and I still catch myself misplacing responsibility all the time, but I really have made progress on establishing my own system of checks and balances, standards and validation – a workable body of government with a lock on the door.

In turn, I have discovered that my light was never as dim as I once thought. 

The external factors of my years in 2023 vs 2024 didn’t drastically differ, what changed instead was the way I believed in myself, and what I knew about my light.

It wouldn’t be any year of mine without the great influence of music, and  2024 brought me two influential and guiding songs.

Fiona Apple’s “Extraordinary Machine” acted as a kind of anthem to me as she sings:  
“I seem to you to seek a new disaster every day  
You deem me due to clean my view and be at peace and lay  
I mean to prove, I mean to move in my own way  
And say I've been getting along for long before you came into the play  

…

Be kind to me, or treat me mean  
I'll make the most of it, I'm an extraordinary machine”  

And Gracie Abrams’ “Free Now” proclaims that she’s,  
“Never been less empty.  
All (she) feel(s) is free now.”  

It makes sense that the realization that I am bright enough to metaphorically sustain my own resilient flame would both remind me what I am made up of, and free me of quite a burden. 

If ever there is a doubt that I might go out, I can remind myself just how long I’ve been getting along before this, and that I am indeed an extraordinary machine. 

As I continue to face adversity and various forms of resistance, I am grateful to have 2024 as a reminder of my capabilities. May I continue to remember who I am without losing track of who I want to be, and where I desire to grow. Of course there is so much to learn in front of me, [“But I'm good at being uncomfortable, so I can't stop changing all the time”](https://open.spotify.com/track/5h9Iek7Hp9wayRt7fBp7Ab?si=54b25f5a06194878).
